In 2018, artist Matthew Wong made headlines for his critically acclaimed New York solo debut at Karma; in 2019, for his death by suicide at age 35; and from 2020 onwards, for the prices his paintings have fetched at auction. Interpretations of Wong’s work have since often been colored by the sensationalizing lore of the tortured artist. It seems the story of his career will always focus on its ending, forever entangling biography with artistic practice. Wong’s first museum retrospective, on view through February 19, 2023, shifts Wong’s singular talent to the forefront, where it rightfully belongs. Organized thematically and roughly chronologically, the retrospective conveys the experimental evolution of a prolific artist who only worked in earnest for about seven years and exhibited for three.⁠
•⁠
Read more about how Matthew Wong’s first museum retrospective rejects the myth of the tortured artist in Artsy Editorial from Harley Wong through the link in our bio.⁠
•⁠
#MatthewWong, River at Night, 2018. Collection of Shio Kusaka and Jonas Wood. © 2022 Matthew Wong Foundation / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Courtesy of the Matthew Wong Foundation; Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York; and the Dallas Museum of Art (DMA).⁠
#MatthewWong, Matthew Wong, The Realm of Appearances, 2018. © 2022 Matthew Wong Foundation / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Courtesy of the Matthew Wong Foundation; Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York; and the Dallas Museum of Art (DMA).⁠
#MatthewWong, Matthew Wong, See You On the Other Side, 2019. © 2022 Matthew Wong Foundation / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Courtesy of the Matthew Wong Foundation; Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York; and the Dallas Museum of Art (DMA).⁠
#MatthewWong, Matthew Wong, Blue Rain, 2018. Collection of KAWS, Promised Gift of KAWS inspired by Julia Chiang to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. © 2022 Matthew Wong Foundation / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Courtesy of the Matthew Wong Foundation; Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York; and the Dallas Museum of Art (DMA).
